High in this video we're going to start looking at tadpoles as data structures.
So the first thing I want to do is I want to compare apples versus lists and those wild versus strings
since they're all sequence types.
So let's go ahead create three columns and let's see what topples are contains what do I mean by a container
while the container type of object is an object that contains other objects and is why it's called a
container.
So tables are containers that contain things that contain sequences of elements lists of the same thing.
They're also containers and so are strings strings actually are containers of characters which are strings
of land one essentially and topples the order matters.
Just like in lists.
And just like in strings the other matters.
It's not like a set.
For example in a set the order of the elements in a set and even mathematically speaking doesn't matter.
It's only the containment that matters but not the order.
But that's not the case for top holds lists and strings.
If you think of a string the order matters it's a word.
Python is not the same as Tryfan.
Right if I switch the T and the around are no longer have the same word.
So all the members lists as well.
All the matters we may have things where we add things to the front of the list to the end of the list
things like that.
The older usually matters in a list and tables as well.
Now tables can be heterogeneous or homogeneous though just two big words to mean that they contain all
the same data type.
In other words it's homogeneous.
So top of that contains only integers.
We would think of as homogeneous but if it contains a mixture of strings and integers and other things
then that's called heterogeneous.
So couples can be either they can be heterogeneous or homogeneous.
But in general you'll find especially when we deal with topples as data records that we're dealing with
heterogeneous data.
Lists can also be heterogeneous or homogeneous but usually you'll find that lists tend to be homogeneous.
Usually it's because we want to iterate over a list and do perform some operation on each element in
the list.
Well if the elements of that list don't all support that operation for example maybe it's finding the
fourth character while finding the first character works for a string and it might work for other sequence
types.
But if it's an integer that's in the middle of the list.
This is going to fail.
So that's why in general Lith's tend to be homogeneous and strings are definitely homogeneous.
They can all be any different.
Every time it's a character.
Now topples up indexable they sequence types.
So you can use square brackets and you don't recover an element from inside the top and using an index
number.
Same thing with lists.
And of course Same thing with strings for the multiples of iterable we can use a for loop to iterate
over the elements of a tuple.
Same thing with lists.
They're also iterable.
Same thing with strings.
So at this point you're probably thinking Well topples lists and strings.
It's kind of all the same thing.
And in a way it is because there are all sequence types.
So they have a lot of common features.
Now let's look at where things are a little different.
The top topple is immutable.
We know that already.
And the list on the other hand is mutable and the string is immutable.
So at this point start noticing that we actually have a little bit more in common between tables and
strings than we have with lists.
Yes they have a lot of things in common.
They're all indexable and iterable the sequence times but the string is immutable and so is the top.
So what does it mean.
Well it means that the top is a fixed length the length of the top will cannot change.
On the other hand in lists of course it can change we can add and remove items and strings of fixed
length as well.
We cannot add or remove characters in the string the immutability of bulls also means that we have a
fixed order in the elements of the table which is not the case in lists but of course it is the case
and strange We have a fixed order as well.
So the fact that the list is mutable means that the order of elements can change too.
For example we can do in place so that we can solve a list in place in other words we're mutating the
list as we're sorting it.
And we can do the same thing with reversals we can reverse the items of the list in place.
We're not creating a new list we're just swapping elements until we have the reversal done for example
or the list sorted.
That's not the case with a top.
If you want to sort of top all you can but it's going to generate a new topple and the same thing with
strength.
We can sort the characters in a string but you're going to create a new string.
You can't do that in place.
It also means that you can't do in-place reversals also for topples and the same applies to strings.
But I didn't have space to write it out.
But what I really want to focus on is this fixed length and fixed order of the table so let's see elements
can be added or removed.
Right.
And the order of events cannot be changed.
So that's what those two characteristics that we're going to leverage.
So this actually works well for representing data records data structures.
And you may not realize it but you've already done this before.
Have you ever done mathematics ever had to write a coordinate pair with an x y coordinates.
How did you write it down.
You probably wrote it down this way 10 comet 20 with parentheses around it.
What were you doing that you were essentially creating a pair of values of coordinates.
And you assigned meaning to the position so no what you would say the first element is the x coordinates
and the second element is the y coordinate.
You assign meaning to the position of the numbers in the space.
Maybe you did a y x Gordon or it or an X Z called it whatever but you had the meaning associated with
the position.
Now I can do the same thing with let's say a circle.
I'm going to represent a circle as 0 0 come at 10 and to me I know what this means because I know what
position zero means and one position to you of course don't know it.
So I'm going to have to tell you here's what the positions mean.
The first position is the x coordinate of the center.
The second is the y coordinates of the center and the third element is the radius of the circle.
Now that you know this you can interpret any so-called topple but I give you I give you five five 20.
You know it's a circle centered at 5 comma 5 which is the x and y coordinates with a radius of 20.
So you can see how we've given meaning to the position of the elements in the top.
And that's all I mean by using a tuple as a data structure.
Now of course tuples don't have to be homogeneous.
Here we're using homogeneous data.
They're all integers.
We can do something like this.
We can have a city and the first element of a city top all is going to be the city name.
The second element is going to be the country and the third element is going to be the population.
So you could certainly do this writing let's say a custom class that has three properties of city name
and population.
But here we have a very lightweight data structure where the position gives it the meaning.
We don't have a name.
We just have the position.
So again we'll just have to basically agree on a convention saying in this program that I'm writing
a city topple will mean the following.
It means that the first element is the city name the second element is the country that it's in.
And the third element is the population of the city.
And once we have that established we can use that throughout our code as a kind of a city structure.
It's not a class it's just a city structure.
It is a topple.
So you'll notice that when we think of toppled this way we're not thinking of immutable lists right.
We're not thinking of Read-Only lists.
It's really there's more to it than that.
This data structure that's inherent to the topple.
So the position of the data has meaning but there are no names associated with that.
This is just a convention
so we can think of the topple as a data record with the position that the data has meaning.
So for example I could have London.
So London is a city that's my variable name and it's a city topple.
It contains the city name the country the population.
I could have New York which is going to have the same structure going to have the city name country
population and I could have Beijing that's going to have the same thing the name of the city the country
and the population.
Now because topples and strings and integers are immutable we're guaranteed that the data and that the
destruction of London will never change.
Well first of all the topple is immutable.
That means that once the city has been assigned to this first element it will always be here.
London isn't going to suddenly switch over somewhere else.
So and by convention I'm always making the city the first element.
So any city topple it's always going to have the city name in the first element and I'm guaranteed that
it's not going to change under me because London which is a string is also immutable.
So here the topple is immutable.
The strings are immutable and the integer is immutable.
So in fact this record here in London UK eight point seventy eight million is totally locked down.
Sure I could point London to some other top all I can do that.
But this topple here is never going to change.
Pass it around to another function.
Nobody's going to change it on me because it's totally immutable so of course we can create lists of
topples.
So here's for example a cities list which contains those three topples it we'll see how we deal with
that in the second.
So now we want to extract data from the topples.
Well obviously top rules are sequenced types.
Right.
So we can index them.
They're indexable so we can retrieve by index so we have this table here we can say city equals London
0.
We can say country equals London 1 and population equals London 2.
If it was New York it would be New York 0 for the country in New York one for the city of New York one
for the country and so on.
So we can extract the data by position.
We know position to population position one country position 0 is the city.
So now let's go back to this list and here's where I want to talk about homogeneity and heterogeneity.
The tuples are heterogeneous.
You'll notice that we have a mix of strings and integers in the top all that's fairly typical.
The list however is homogeneous.
It contains all city topples.
These are all the same data type.
They're all the same data structures.
And why is that important.
Well let's say that we want to calculate the total population of those three cities.
A very simple way is to do this.
We can say total population is zero.
Then we loop through every city in the cities iterate through the cities and we just grab the element
at position two in each element of the cities list.
We can only do that because we have we have guaranteed ourselves in our program that we're only putting
cities into the cities list it's homogeneous of course lists don't have to be homogeneous.
But this is why they tend to be homogeneous because then we can do something like this safely.
Imagine that the next element of this list was 100.
Well this code would blow up because the you know if we take the city which is the last item but now
that's going to be an integer and we try and index it we're going to have a runtime error.
We're going to have an exception.
So that's why they tend to be homogeneous.
We'll see other ways by the way of writing this as a much better way of writing something like that
but we'll see that later when we get into sequence types.
So you'll notice again how the list of cities is homogeneous it only contains cities but the cities
themselves are heterogeneous.
Now there's other ways that we can unpack that we can extract data from a tuple and that's called unpacking.
We've seen this before we saw that new function arguments.
For example if this is marked up all New York which is this tunnel here these three values.
Now I just want to point out that the parentheses is not necessary to declare or to create a topple.
What creates a top or is the commons.
It is not the parentheses.
This here what we've done is called Packing with pack those three values.
NEW YORK USA 8.5 million into a topple.
That's just called Packing and we can reverse that process by doing something called unpacking where
we can assign basically a topple to a list or to a another topple to basically three values right in
a topple.
But here we have labels.
Right.
The left hand side of the assignment or the labels.
So what Python is going to do it's going to take the first element of New York the New York topple and
assign it to the label city.
Second element to country third element to population and that's called unpacking the tuple.
We could of course do it this way we can pack and unpack on the same line.
Right.
So we can do it this way.
And of course we don't need the parentheses to pack the tuple.
This is how we create the tuple.
The parentheses is just something that we can add in to you know highlight the fact that this is a tuple.
And in certain cases especially with function parameters things like that are function arguments.
We need the parentheses to differentiate between the tuple and the other arguments.
Let's say in a function that many variables is something we've seen before.
I just want to quickly mention this again with so many variables when we were doing the single dispatch
generic functions we were using dummy variable names essentially for functions.
This is the same thing when we were unpacking.
You know suppose we're only interested in the city and the city name and the population of the city
record.
So we could do it this way we could say city underscore population and then we're unpacking Beijing
China 21 million into this.
These three variables now the underscore is a variable name it's a legal variable name.
There's nothing magical about it.
It's just a convention that many Python programmers use to indicate that yes I am extracting China into
a variable but I don't actually care about this thing.
I'm going to throw it away I'm never going to use it.
So then you know we tend to use an underscore and will reuse the underscore in other places too for
things that we don't care about.
Now once you've done this unpacking you could actually print underscore you could say print parentheses
underscore.
That will work and it will print China.
In this case so it's just a variable name.
There's nothing special about it.
It's just a convention.
In fact we could have used city ignored population right.
We could have unpacked it this way and indicated maybe more explicitly that hey we're ignoring this
but people are used to using the underscore for ignored fields.
So you might as well use it less typing to do than ignored.
Now we also have extended unpacking.
And what I mean by that.
Again we've seen it before.
But let's have this record and this record again has meaning because of the positions what it means
is that this position is the ticker symbol.
This is the year the month the day this is the open price.
This is the high low and then the closed price cut.
And we can extract therefore all the data using unpacking and this way we get a symbol come a Uruk come
a month come a day blah blah blah come close equals record and we've unpacked all of these values into
these variable names.
But let's say we're only interested in the symbol the year the month the day and the clothes we're not
interested in retrieving open high low so we could certainly do something like this.
We could say symbol equals record 0 your record one month equals record two and so on.
But come on.
I mean really this really looks bad.
It's not that it's wrong there's nothing wrong with it.
And it really only looks bad because there's a better way to do it in Python.
So it looks bad because.
Yeah.
And so Bob thinks Yeah.
BLAIR So resurrected Bob for today.
So we don't want to go about it this way there's a better way to do this.
Maybe it's this we could say Simbel come a year come close are left of month and day just to keep a
shorter equals record 0 record one record seven.
Well that's actually a terrible idea because I mean it walks there's nothing logically wrong with this
code.
But think about what we're doing.
We're going to record grabbing the element at index 0.
Then the element that index one then the element that index 7 we're packing it into a tuple and then
we're unpacking it into symbole or enclose.
We're going to do that.
We may as well just do it this way.
OK.
This isn't really the cleanest.
Now if you get maybe one or two maybe that's OK.
But if you're doing this because you're trying to avoid having to deal with the ones that you're going
to ignore open high low for example that's really not a good thing.
So it's pretty awful looking cold in fact poor Bob just threw up.
We don't want that to happen.
So there's a better way much better way in Python.
And it's this start this extended unpacking again.
We've seen it before.
What we can do it this way we can say Simbel your month day calmer stuff and then some variable name
we need a variable name because we're going to unpack into this variable as well.
How is this going to work.
Python is going to take the first second third and fourth elements of rocket and put them into these
four variables respectively.
It's going to take the last element of rocket and put it into close and then anything else in between
it's going to create a list out of that and throw it into this variable here.
And I've just used an underscore as a dummy variable to indicate that I don't care about it.
So you can see that this is a much cleaner way of doing it than over here.
In fact of course I could have used star ignored as well.
I don't have to use the underscore that's just a convention.
So a better way of doing it.
It's more pythoness stick.
All right.
Thanks for watching.
Let's switch to some code and I'll see you in a bit.